well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we are going to talk about
invention
necessity innovation and logical
fallacies
um there are a couple of logical
fallacies that anytime they arise
i try to push back on because
well we'll get to that i did this
last night on twitter because i did it
on twitter it
conversation of course didn't go where i
wanted it to go but
i tried to
push back against the idea of a genetic
fallacy
okay now what this is it's when
because something originated with
something bad
it has to be bad now it can go the other
way
and if something originated was
something good therefore it has to be
good
but it's normally used in the negative
sense um
this isn't true ideas innovations
inventions they stand and fall on their
own it doesn't matter where they
originated
um this is a a pretty dangerous
logical fallacy historically speaking
because it normally gets used in
conjunction with something called the
fallacy of composition
and the way that works is let's say
one person from demographic x does
something bad
fallacy of composition states well then
that whole demographic is bad
this of course is wrong when you have
that
and then you apply the genetic fallacy
to it
this whole demographic is bad and
anything that comes from them is bad
well then i mean you really only have
one option right you got to get rid of
them
those people are just no good some of
the worst
things in human history have come from
these two logical fallacies
working together so when i see them i
try to push back against them
i did this by trying to use the us
military
and things that uh innovations
that they could be credited with if you
don't know
it's worth googling there's a giant list
of stuff you use probably every day
that originated with the us military
now on to the actual point
um during this conversation a lot of
people
said you know well it didn't have to
come from the military
we could have just poured funding into
civilian research and gotten this stuff
yes and no it didn't have to come from
the military
fact but research alone isn't going to
do it
because that's not that isn't how the
military spurs so much
innovation
you need a challenge you need
self-interest
there aren't a lot of things that are as
high stakes
as the endeavors of the military
so what happens is you get the
researchers
the engineers and the people who are
going to use the stuff
use whatever new technology is developed
they're going to use in the field
and they're all brought together
they're all in one one spot so you get
that applied technology
immediately so just pumping the funding
into research
that alone isn't going to do it you need
something pressing
a challenge self-interest
say landing on the moon
a big challenge something like that can
spur
technological innovation but
things like that don't come around so
often
what is more effective is if it's a
threat
if it's something that provides that
self-interest that truly motivates
people
because they have to be motivated but it
still doesn't have to be the military
imagine if there was some
global threat something that all of
humanity was facing
that we had to mobilize to deal with
say climate change for example
when climate change gets presented when
the mobilizations that are going to be
required to deal with this gets
presented
a lot of times it gets framed as a jobs
program and that is a good
way to frame it that that's going to
reach
more of the people who are skeptical of
it then
it's an environmental thing okay if
if the environmental reasons for it
were going to sway them they already
would have been swayed
the jobs program is a good one but there
are still those people that that isn't
going to help
entitlement people just wanting to hand
out
the fact that a mobilization
the size of what we would need to combat
climate change would probably develop
more technological breakthroughs and
more innovations than world war
ii did might be another selling point
that might be something you can tuck
away
keep in your back pocket for those
conversations because people
with pretty much everything need
self-interest
and if they don't care about the
environment and they're not somebody who
would benefit from the jobs program
aspect of it the technological benefits
might
that might be something that could sway
them
as we're
trying to rally support for this
we need to have every tool available
because it's going to take a lot
it is going to take a lot we need a
world war
ii style mobilization
to uh to get any real traction
to get anything done in the time frame
that we have
this uh it's just one more little tool
in the toolbox if we engage in this kind
of mobilization we will get
technological breakthroughs that will
send us ahead
maybe that'll help sway somebody
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day